[Music]
All right, we're talking MAGA right now,
but we're talking about make Alibaba
great again. That's really is the mantra
and what we're seeing and what we're
hearing from according to our reporting
from Bloomberg that Jack Ma is back on
Alibaba's campuses and is more directly
involved in the company than he has been
in half a decade now. Ma of course as
you may know was once China's wealthiest
and most prominent tech leader and his
comeback has been long awaited. And that
of course that handshake people remember
with President Xi back in February was
seen as his official return to grace. It
was also a signal that the country's
tech sector private sector may be back
in favor in Beijing as well. But you
know he always has been Dave the face
the personality behind this company and
and really uh the company without him
for the last few years has struggled in
some ways you could say and we certainly
have seen that reflective in the stock
price. I mean I mean certainly and you
know there have been not you know not
just of course on the Jackmaw side of
things you know there's been this whole
regulatory regime shift and shift back
that's really led to that and I think
using Alibaba just as a juxiposition of
you know the changing story is a really
useful exercise to just figure out right
now what it actually means not just for
the company but for the sector moving
forward. In fact when you look at this
chart we put it actually on a chart. Uh
we're not taking the chart all the way
back to 2014 of course when it listed
first in the US and I remember that day
like it was yesterday very big deal of
course that listing right now but I also
remember almost like it was yesterday
you know the conversations around how
massive that at deal was going into what
eventually was a pulling of that listing
the whole common prosperity conversation
that return of course in pictures of
Jackma uh and of course eventually what
then led to Chinese president meeting
Jackm of course that big meeting that
took place following the deepseek moment
early this year which did include of
course Jackma there uh in Beijing and it
also brings to mind and here's a useful
statistic in case our some of our
viewers missed it right Alibaba was back
then the biggest stock on hanging is
right now again the biggest stock most
heav heaviest weighted stock to be more
specific on the hanging index I just had
to look at my terminal right now at the
peak October
I think it was October 17,
2017 or October 27, 2017. At one point,
Alibaba was valued at 860ish
billion US dollars. It was sixth in the
world as far as market cap. Right now,
it's about 360 and it's ranked about 30.
So, it come back, but certainly there's
a long way back to the very top.
>> Yes.
>> But, you know, who would have thought
we'd be here talking about this very
story at this point in time? Yeah, we're
still I think not quite even halfway
there from the peak right of those glory
days, but certainly it's a fantastic
piece that brought to you by uh of
course our tech team. I want to bring in
L Ding now. She joins us now with more.
So tell us a bit more. It's a great
story. Why do you think Jack Ma is back
and at what capacity?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. So uh what
we have been hearing from uh employees
at Alibaba and uh some other sources
that uh Jack has been more involved in
the company uh the most involved uh
since 2020 and uh he's been showing up
on campuses. Uh he's also getting behind
a lot of uh big decisions in Alibaba
like uh recently the big investment of
50 billion yen of subsidies into food
delivery. Uh and uh of course he cares a
lot about AI. He gets daily updates and
in one case versus told us that he was
messaging a senior manager three times a
day and that's uh that's a lot of uh
that's a lot of uh watching and then uh
of course he does not have a official uh
title in the company from what we heard
uh but yeah he's just uh he's around.
>> Well how much of the stock price rally
can be credited to Jack Ma being back?
Yeah, I think uh so a lot when we when
we talk to people a lot of the the one
word that came a lot uh a lot is the
morale and he's still the moral leader.
he comes back and that means that some
of the worst days that you two described
earlier has uh has passed and then uh
the company's uh steady shift uh and
then a lot of confidence being brought
to the company and that's that means a
lot and of course uh when we talk about
like Alibaba's growth right now uh major
driver is AI and then that's when uh
Alibaba uh years ago Jackmass supported
the venture and then when when the cloud
uh business was in a lot of doubts uh
Ali Jack supported it and then uh yeah
and look at now it's u it's the most
promising uh growth engine of the
company rather than a lot of its
competitors JDM uh deep into the food
delivery war.
>> Yeah. I I think one of the people you
talked to said you know when he when
there was a news that he was going to be
making a speech on campus they were
getting very emotional right. Um just
even just the idea of it.
>> So what do we know at this point? Is he
is he going to make an official comeback
at some point?
um we don't know that and then he's
being keeping relatively much lower
profile. He was he was one of the most
most like visual uh visible leader uh
business leader from China. He goes to
Davos and all that and we have not seen
that yet and he's been showing more
showing up more on campus uh and then
he's giving speeches but it's mostly
internally uh besides that he's been
biking by the West Lake in Hanzo other
than it's mostly internal.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Still keeping low profile for now.
Didn't he get up as he didn't he dress
up as Michael Jackson once? Right.
>> Yes. Those those annual shows
>> Alibaba day, right? Jack Michael
Jackson.
>> And there was some African talent show
or some show that he was also on
recently as well. Great reporting and
thank you for bringing that story to us
here. L staying there joining us from
our tech